In causal mapping we identify influence factors, which are:
All events a respondent mentions
y Factors which influence other factors
Factors which are related to other factors in any way
Only factors which completely control other factors
Factors which are the consequence of other factors
The result of an event

In causal mapping we identify consequence factors, which are:
y Factors which are influenced by other factors
All events a respondent mentions
Factors which have consequences
The cause of an event

Influence factors:
y Can appear anywhere in a map as long as they have at least one outgoing arrow
Can appear anywhere in a map
Only appear at the beginning of causal chains
Are also known as drivers

Consequence factors:
y Can appear anywhere in a map as long as they have at least one incoming arrow
Can appear anywhere in a map
Only appear at the end of causal chains
Are also known as outcomes

Which of the following statements are correct?
A factor cannot be both an influence and consequence
There can only be one influence factor per statement
y An influence factor leads to a consequence
hint There can be multiple influence factors, and influence factors can be both a consequence and an influence.

What is a feedback loop?
y A path from a factor back to itself, directly or indirectly
y A path in which every factor is an influence of itself and a consequence of itself, directly or indirectly
An influence factor which has multiple consequences
An influence factor that always has the same consequence

Which of the following is NOT a feedback loop:
The ice caps are melting which leads to warmer oceans, which contributes to the ice caps melting
y Heavy rains leads to poor crop yield, which leads to less income
A companies profits go up so they invest back into the company, which helps them boost their income
hint Heavy rains leads to poor yield which leads to less income, this does not then affect the rainfall or the crop yield, so this is not a feedback loop.

'When I first became a farmer I was growing maize which was a good decision. Recently I have started planted millet as well. In the future I would like to plant even more varieties'. ///Why might you not code this statement?
There are too many influence factors
y This is not a causal claim
There has been no change
hint There is no clear influence factor for this change and no consequence mentioned by this respondent. They grow maize and may start growing corn but we do not know if or how these events are related.

Read this statement: ///‘I grow maize myself and I sell a range of goods such as maize, corn fritters and salted fish. The price of maize has recently increased which would have been good for my business, unfortunately the rain has been terrible this season and my crops have suffered, so I have nothing to sell and less money coming in’. ///What is the influence factor that has resulted in loss of income?
Selling a range of goods
The price of maize increasing
y Poor rainfall

Read this statement: ///'Healthwise my family is doing well compared to other years. In previous years we went to traditional healers a lot, but not this year because we have had less sickness in the household since we have started washing our hands before eating using a new tap we have. We have picked up these good habits due to the training course run by Organisation X, we want to be more healthy and have less sickness in our household.’ ///What is the first influence factor?
The installation of a new tap
y Organisation X training course
Not visiting traditional healers
hint This statement does not say whether the installation of a new tap and not visiting traditional healers has influenced their decision to change their behaviour.

Looking at the same statement, which factor is both a influence and consequence factor?
y Washing their hands
Improved health
Organisation X training course
hint Washing their hands has been caused by Organisation X’s training course and also has influenced the family’s health.

Looking at the same statement, what is the last factor in the chain?
Improved health
y Not visiting the traditional healers
Washing their hands
hint Washing their hands has led to Improved health which has led to them visiting the traditional healers less, so this is the last factor in the causal chain
