Which of these advanced tips are true?
y If you want to save just some part of your file as a new file, apply a filter and then click 'Save this mapfile under a new name' in the top menu, and then 'Save file as currently filtered'
y You can just type 'find factors label contains Farming' in the Advanced Editor, much easier than 'find factors field=label value=Farming operator=contains'
y When using the Advanced Editor, you can directly edit the links corresponding to each factor by clicking on the boxes in the right-hand sidebar.
y Find out how many sources made at least one causal claim? In the links table, put source_id in the Count box, and nothing in the Group By box.
In the Downloads tab, you can export your entire file as a Gephi file.
hint There is no downloads tab and no way to export a Gephi file directly. But you can export your mapfile as an Excel file using the menu next to the logo.

Which of these advanced tips are true?
y Open the Gallery just by pressing Alt+q (Option+q on Mac).
y In the Advanced Editor, quickly move lines up or down by pressing Alt+Up or Alt+Down  (Option+Up or Option+Down on Mac).
y In the Advanced Editor, 'color text fixed=pink' sets a fixed colour for factor text.
y You can 'like' filters in the Gallery to make it easier for you and others to find the best ones.
You can copy a Print map just by right-clicking on it.
hint You can right-click to copy an Interactive map but not a Print map

Which of these advanced tips are true?
y To exclude factors containing 'X' from a map, just type 'find factors label notcontains X'.
y You can 'hide' shortlink filters in the Gallery which you no longer need. The shortlinks will still work if someone clicks on an old link.
y You can make the left-hand panel much wider by clicking the tiny '>' button at the top right of the panel.
y Add a quick, timestamped note to yourself about your file by clicking on the Chat icon in the top menu.

Which of these advanced tips are true?
y In the Gallery, the grey panels show your recent history and the green panels show shortlinks.
y If you have some factors which you are no longer using (they have no links), you can see them and delete them in the Data Manager tab.
y All the tables also have Print View which is just text - useful for pasting into reports. At the top of a table, press the Printer button and then the Copy button
If you have some sources which you are no longer using (they have no links), you can see them and delete them in the Data Manager tab.
hint There is no way to delete unused sources at the moment.
